#Books 
[[Walter Isaacson]]
[[Steve Jobs]]


## Highlights
- The contractor said it couldn’t be built. Jobs said it could, and it was. ([Location 4014](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=4014))
- He grabbed a magic marker, padded to a whiteboard, and drew a horizontal and vertical line to make a four-squared chart. “Here’s what we need,” he continued. Atop the two columns he wrote “Consumer” and “Pro”; he labeled the two rows “Desktop” and “Portable.” Their job, he said, was to make four great products, one for each quadrant. “The room was in dumb silence,” Schiller recalled. ([Location 5922](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=5922))
- “It takes a lot of hard work,” he said, “to make something simple, to truly understand the underlying challenges and come up with elegant solutions.” ([Location 6003](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=6003))
- Why do we assume that simple is good? Because with physical products, we have to feel we can dominate them. As you bring order to complexity, you find a way to make the product defer to you. Simplicity isn’t just a visual style. It’s not just minimalism or the absence of clutter. It involves digging through the depth of the complexity. To be truly simple, you have to go really deep. For example, to have no screws on something, you can end up having a product that is so convoluted and so complex. The better way is to go deeper with the simplicity, to understand everything about it and how it’s manufactured. You have to deeply understand the essence of a product in order to be able to get rid of the parts that are not essential. ([Location 6006](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=6006))
- “If something isn’t right, you can’t just ignore it and say you’ll fix it later,” he said. “That’s what other companies do.” ([Location 6494](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=6494))
- He tried to explain that a false sense of confidence would not overcome engineering challenges, but that was a premise that Jobs had repeatedly shown he didn’t accept. ([Location 8137](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=8137))
- We believe that we are on the face of the earth to make great products, and that’s not changing. We are constantly focusing on innovating. We believe in the simple not the complex. We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products that we make, and participate only in markets where we can make a significant contribution. We believe in saying no to thousands of projects, so that we can really focus on the few that are truly important and meaningful to us. We believe in deep collaboration and cross-pollination of our groups, which allow us to innovate in a way that others cannot. And frankly, we don’t settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we’re wrong and the courage to change. And I think, regardless of who is in what job, those values are so embedded in this company that Apple will do extremely well. ([Location 8405](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=8405))
- We didn’t know much about each other twenty years ago. We were guided by our intuition; you swept me off my feet. It was snowing when we got married at the Ahwahnee. Years passed, kids came, good times, hard times, but never bad times. Our love and respect has endured and grown. We’ve been through so much together and here we are right back where we started 20 years ago—older, wiser—with wrinkles on our faces and hearts. We now know many of life’s joys, sufferings, secrets and wonders and we’re still here together. My feet have never returned to the ground. ([Location 9108](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B004W2UBYW&location=9108))
